2022/DCSE/026/SS
Question 1
(i)	Database 
A database is a collection of related tables

(ii)	Database Management System
This is a software program that stores databases and enables running of queries like insert, update on the database

(iii)	SQL
SQL is a structured query language that enables a database user perform various activities with the database

(iv)	Foreign key
This is a candidate key in a relation with values that match values of a primary key in another relation

(v)	Primary key
This is a set of values in a relation that uniquely identifies each entity

Question 2
A database reduces data redundancy. This means when using a database, there will be minimal repetition of data.
Databases stores a lot of data. It is easy to store a lot of data for future reference
Databases enable data security. This is because some database require permission for a user to login.
Databases are easy to learn. It does not need complex languages to understand for example SQL 
Databases minimizes referential constraints especially incase of showing the relationship of one table to another. This is done using foreign keys
Sql update

Question 3
Oracle
Postgres
MySQL
MariaDB
MongoDB
Microsoft access

Question 4
Zero-to-many
One-to-one
One-to-many
Many-to-many
One-to-one relationship is where there is a single existence of the relationship with two relations
One-to-many is where there one participant has a relationship to many participants in another relations
Many-to-many is where all participants have relationship to each other.

SECTION B
Question 5(b)
i.	WHERE;
This SQL command enables you to find a specified category depending on your condition
For example
select * from customers where gender=’male’
It will only return the customers of the male gender
i.	GROUPBY 
This SQL command enables you to arrange identical data into groups
ii.	DISTINCT 
This returns the non-duplicated values from the table and any duplicate values will be ignored.
For example
select distinct country from customers.  
It will only return the country names and will ignore repeated country names.
iii.	SELECT
This displays your data depending on what the user wants to return
For example
Select * from users
It will display all details of users
iv.	ORDERBY 
This return specified values in either ascending or descending order.
For example
select name, age from employees order by Age;
It will return the name and age but with age arranged from ascending order
